#summary Detailed information about the Ableton Clip Launcher page.

= Page Description =

The Ableton Clip Launcher page uses the LiveOSC project to communicate with Ableton Live.  Setup of LiveOSC is described in the document below.  Note that at the time of this writing LiveOSC is only available for Windows users.

== 64 Layout ==

|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || -bpm ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || +bpm ||
|| rec1 || rec2 || rec3 || rec4 || rec5 || rec6 || rec7 || ovdb ||
|| stp1 || stp2 || stp3 || stp4 || stp5 || stp6 || stp7 || undo ||

== 128 Layout ==

|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || -bpm ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || +bpm ||
|| rec1 || rec2 || rec3 || rec4 || rec5 || rec6 || rec7 || rec8 || rec9 || rc10 || rc11 || rc12 || rc13 || rc14 || rc15 || ovdb ||
|| stp1 || stp2 || stp3 || stp4 || stp5 || stp6 || stp7 || stp8 || stp9 || st10 || st11 || st12 || st13 || st14 || st15 || undo ||

== 256 Layout ==

|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxco ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || pvtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || nxtk ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || -bpm ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || +bpm ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || ovdb ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || undo ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || clip || null ||
|| rec1 || rec2 || rec3 || rec4 || rec5 || rec6 || rec7 || rec8 || rec9 || rc10 || rc11 || rc12 || rc13 || rc14 || rc15 || null ||
|| stp1 || stp2 || stp3 || stp4 || stp5 || stp6 || stp7 || stp8 || stp9 || st10 || st11 || st12 || st13 || st14 || st15 || null ||

Each column represents one track in Ableton Live's session view.  The clip buttons trigger clips from top to bottom in the track.  The recX buttons arm or disarm their associated track for recording.  The stpX buttons send a stop signal to their associated track.

The pvco and nxco buttons switch to the previous clip offset or the next clip offset.  Each clip offset shows you a particular slice of the Ableton session view (from top to bottom).  These buttons move your view up and down the Ableton clip matrix.

The pvtk and nxtk buttons switch to the previous track offset or the next track offset.  Each track offset shows you a particular slice of the Ableton session view (from left to right).  These buttons move your view left and right in the Ableton clip matrix.

The -bpm and +bpm buttons subtract 1 or add 1 to the current tempo.

The ovdb button toggles overdub mode on and off in Ableton.

The undo button performs the undo action in Ableton.

= Recording =

You can record audio and MIDI clips on the fly by record enabling the track and triggering a clip slot that doesn't have a clip yet (the monome button isn't lit).  This will create a new clip and start recording the audio input into it.

= LiveOSC Setup =

== Windows ==

1) Download and install Python 2.2.3 to {{{C:\Python22}}}.  Other versions may work as well, this just happens to be the version I'm using.

http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.2.3/

2) Download the LiveAPI package from http://code.google.com/p/liveapi.  Extract it to a temporary folder.

3) Copy the {{{_LiveAPICore}}} folder from the LiveAPI package to {{{C:\Python22\Lib}}}

4) Create a file called {{{__init__.py}}} in the {{{C:\Python22\Lib\_LiveAPICore}}} that contains exactly this one line:

{{{__all__ = ["LiveUtils", "OSC", "RemixNet"]}}}

5) Copy the {{{LiveOSC}}} and {{{LiveTelnet}}} folders both to {{{C:\Program Files\Ableton\...\Resources\MIDI Remote Scripts}}}

6) Delete the {{{LiveOSC.pyc}}} and {{{LiveOSCBindings.pyc}}} files in the {{{LiveOSC}}} folder.  This is so they will get recompiled from the .py files.  I'm not sure if it's needed or not but did it anyways just in case.

7) I have extended the LiveAPI somewhat for this project, you should download the {{{LiveOSC.py}}} and {{{LiveOSCBindings.py}}} files from the Downloads tab and copy them to the {{{C:\Program Files\Ableton\...\Resources\MIDI Remote Scripts\LiveOSC}}} directory.

8) Load up Ableton Live, go to Options -> Preferences -> MIDI and select LiveOSC as a control surface. 

9) In pages, make sure you go to Configuration -> Ableton OSC Settings and click save.  The default settings should work fine.

== OSX ==

1) Download the Python 2.2.3 source code from here:

[http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.2.3/Python-2.2.3.tgz]

2) Un-tarred it to /python2.2

3) Open terminal and run:
{{{
echo /python2.2/lib > /Library/Python/2.3/site-packages/python2.2.pth
}}}

4) Download and unzip the LiveAPI-OSX package from here:

[http://liveapi.googlegroups.com/web/LiveAPI-OSX.zip]

5) Put the _LiveAPICore folder into /python2.2/lib

6) Download the LiveOSCBindings.py file from the Downloads tab and put it in the LiveOSC folder

7) Put the LiveOSC and LiveTelnet folders inside Live.app (right-click, "Show Package Contents") Live.app/Contents/App-Resources/MIDI Remote Scripts

8) Start Ableton Live, go to Options -> Preferences, go to the MIDI/Sync tab and select LiveOSC from the first Control Surface dropdown