#summary Detailed information about the MIDI Keyboard page.

= Page Description =

The MIDI Keyboard page allows the monome to be played like a MIDI Keyboard.  All notes are mapped into the selected key/scale.

== 64 Layout ==

|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn1 ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn2 ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn3 ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn4 ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn5 ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || chn6 ||
|| c    || c#   || d    || d#   || e    || f    || f#   || g    ||
|| g#   || a    || a#   || b    || scl1 || scl2 || scl3 || scl4 ||

Each not1, not2, not3, etc. row represents the notes of the selected scale in a particular octave.

The chn1 buttons allow toggling between the midi channel that note messages will be sent on.

The c, c#, d, etc. buttons allow toggling between the selected key.

The scl buttons allow selection of the scale.  scl1 = major, scl2 = minor, scl3 and scl4 are indian-sounding and blues-sounding scales.

== 128 Layout ==

|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || not1 || not2 || not3 || not4 || not5 || not6 || not7 || oup  || odwn ||
|| c    || c#   || d    || d#   || e    || f    || f#   || g    || g#   || a    || a#   || b    || scl1 || scl2 || scl3 || scl4 ||

Each not1, not2, not3, etc. row represents the notes of the selected scale in a particular octave.  In the 128 version, each row is 2 octaves and there's an octave toggle on the far right.  Every 3 rows represents one MIDI channel, starting with MIDI channel 1.

The c, c#, d, etc. buttons allow toggling between the selected key.

The scl buttons allow selection of the scale.  scl1 = major, scl2 = minor, scl3 and scl4 are indian-sounding and blues-sounding scales.